docs/sysadmin/deploy.rst, before:

#########################
Setup Trix for production
#########################


********************
Install dependencies
********************
#. Python 3.6 or higher. Check your current version by running ``python --version``.
#. PIP_
#. VirtualEnv_
#. PostgreSQL server --- not needed if you just want to build the docs.


************************************************************
Create or select a user that you want to run the Trix server
************************************************************
We recommend using a normal user with no admin/root/sudo privileges to run Trix.
You should perform the rest of the steps in this guide as this new user.


********************************************
Make a directory where you will install trix
********************************************
This directory MUST NOT be served by a http server like apache. It should be a well protected
local directory only acceccible to the user running Trix. Example::

    $ mkdir ~/trixdeploy

We will refer to your trix deploy directory as ``~/trixdeploy`` for the rest of this guide.



************
Install Trix
************
::

    $ cd ~/trixdeploy
    $ virtualenv venv
    $ venv/bin/pip install psycopg2 dj-static trix


*********************************
Create a Django management script
*********************************
Copy this script into ``~/trixdeploy/manage.py``::

    import os
    import sys

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        os.environ["DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE"] = "trix_settings"
        from django.core.management import execute_from_command_line
        execute_from_command_line(sys.argv)


*********
Configure
*********
Trix is configured through a ``trix_settings.py`` file. Start by copying the following into
``~/trixdeploy/trix_settings.py``::

    from trix.project.production.settings import *
    import dj_database_url

    # Make this 50 chars and RANDOM - do not share it with anyone
    SECRET_KEY = 'XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'

    # Database config
    DATABASE_URL = 'sqlite:///trixdb.sqlite'
    DATABASES = {'default': dj_database_url.config(default=DATABASE_URL)}

    # Set this to False to turn of debug mode in production
    DEBUG = False

****
LDAP
****
To enable LDAP authenication, ``trix_settings.py`` would need to include an authenication backend
with LDAP support, the URI for the LDAP server and its DN template, and possiblely some
`customization <https://django-auth-ldap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/authentication.html#customizing-authentication>`_
to adjust for how the usernames are stored in Trix's database.

As an example, the settings for UiO would need to adjust for the LDAP username not being a full
email adresse by overwriting ``ldap_to_django_username()`` and ``django_to_ldap_username()``
functions of ``django_auth_ldap.backend.LDAPBackend``.

Add the following to you ``trix_settings.py`` file (but adjust the DN template)::

    AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS = [
        'trix_uio_ldap_auth.TrixUioLDAPBackend',
    ]
    AUTH_LDAP_SERVER_URI = 'ldaps://ldap.uio.no'
    AUTH_LDAP_USER_DN_TEMPLATE = 'uid=hei,cn=people,dc=uio,dc=no'

Create a ``trix_uio_ldap_auth.py`` as follows (but adjust the email suffix)::

    from django_auth_ldap.backend import LDAPBackend

    class TrixUioLDAPBackend(LDAPBackend):
        def ldap_to_django_username(self, username):
            return '{}@example.com'.format(username)

        def django_to_ldap_username(self, username):
            return username.split('@')[0]


****************
Consent template
****************
Customising the consent template is highly recommended and can be done by following these steps:

    1. Create a directory for custom templates with a subfolder named ``trix_student``
    2. Create a django html file called ``consent_form.django.html`` and make it look like this::

        {% extends "trix_student/consent_form_base.django.html" %}

        {% block consent_title %}<h1>Consent title here</h1>{% endblock %}

        {% block consent_text %}Lorem Ipsum{% endblock %}

        {# If you want to override the buttons you can add this #}
        {# {% block consent_buttons %}BUTTONS{% endblock %} #}


    3. In ``trix_settings.py`` do::

        from trix.utils.template import add_custom_template

        add_custom_template('custom_template_directory/goes/here')

If you wish to disable the consent dialog completely for some reason, add ``DISABLE_CONSENT = True``
to your ``trix_settings.py`` file.


******************
Make sure it works
******************
Just to make sure everything works, run::

    $ cd ~/trixdeploy/
    $ venv/bin/python manage.py migrate

This should create a file named ``~/trixdeploy/trixdb.sqlite``. You can remove that file now - it was just for testing.


********************
Collect static files
********************
Run the following command to collect all static files (CSS, javascript, ...) for Trix::

    $ venv/bin/python manage.py collectstatic

The files are written to the ``staticfiles`` sub-directory (~/trixdeploy/staticfiles).


********************
Configure a database
********************
Configure a Postgres database by editing the ``DATABASE_URL`` setting in your ``trix_settings.py`` script.
The format is::

    DATABASE_URL = "postgres://USER:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/NAME"


**********************
Configure a SECRET_KEY
**********************
Configure the SECRET_KEY (used for cryptographic signing) by editing the ``SECRET_KEY`` setting in your
``trix_settings.py`` script. Make it a 50 characters long random string.


******************
Disable debug mode
******************
Before running Trix in production, you **must** set ``DEBUG=False`` in ``trix_settings.py``.

.. warning::

    If you do not disable DEBUG mode in production, you database credentials and SECRET_KEY
    will be shown to any visitor when they encounter an error.


*************************
Run the production server
*************************
::

    $ DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=trix_settings venv/bin/gunicorn trix.project.production.wsgi -b 0.0.0.0:8000 --workers=12 --preload

You can adjust the number of worker threads in the ``--workers`` argument,
and the port number in the ``-b`` argument. You can run this on port 80,
but if you want to have SSL support, you will need to use a HTTP proxy
server like Apache og Nginx.


.. _PIP: https://pip.pypa.io
.. _VirtualEnv: https://virtualenv.pypa.io

Commit message:

Added docs for Dataporten usage.

docs/sysadmin/deploy.rst, after:

#########################
Setup Trix for production
#########################


********************
Install dependencies
********************
#. Python 3.6 or higher. Check your current version by running ``python --version``.
#. PIP_
#. VirtualEnv_
#. PostgreSQL server --- not needed if you just want to build the docs.


************************************************************
Create or select a user that you want to run the Trix server
************************************************************
We recommend using a normal user with no admin/root/sudo privileges to run Trix.
You should perform the rest of the steps in this guide as this new user.


********************************************
Make a directory where you will install trix
********************************************
This directory MUST NOT be served by a http server like apache. It should be a well protected
local directory only acceccible to the user running Trix. Example::

    $ mkdir ~/trixdeploy

We will refer to your trix deploy directory as ``~/trixdeploy`` for the rest of this guide.



************
Install Trix
************
::

    $ cd ~/trixdeploy
    $ virtualenv venv
    $ venv/bin/pip install psycopg2 dj-static trix


*********************************
Create a Django management script
*********************************
Copy this script into ``~/trixdeploy/manage.py``::

    import os
    import sys

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        os.environ["DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE"] = "trix_settings"
        from django.core.management import execute_from_command_line
        execute_from_command_line(sys.argv)


*********
Configure
*********
Trix is configured through a ``trix_settings.py`` file. Start by copying the following into
``~/trixdeploy/trix_settings.py``::

    from trix.project.production.settings import *
    import dj_database_url

    # Make this 50 chars and RANDOM - do not share it with anyone
    SECRET_KEY = 'XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'

    # Database config
    DATABASE_URL = 'sqlite:///trixdb.sqlite'
    DATABASES = {'default': dj_database_url.config(default=DATABASE_URL)}

    # Set this to False to turn of debug mode in production
    DEBUG = False

****
LDAP
****
To enable LDAP authenication, ``trix_settings.py`` would need to include an authenication backend
with LDAP support, the URI for the LDAP server and its DN template, and possiblely some
`customization <https://django-auth-ldap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/authentication.html#customizing-authentication>`_
to adjust for how the usernames are stored in Trix's database.

As an example, the settings for UiO would need to adjust for the LDAP username not being a full
email adresse by overwriting ``ldap_to_django_username()`` and ``django_to_ldap_username()``
functions of ``django_auth_ldap.backend.LDAPBackend``.

Add the following to you ``trix_settings.py`` file (but adjust the DN template)::

    AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS = [
        'trix_uio_ldap_auth.TrixUioLDAPBackend',
    ]
    AUTH_LDAP_SERVER_URI = 'ldaps://ldap.uio.no'
    AUTH_LDAP_USER_DN_TEMPLATE = 'uid=hei,cn=people,dc=uio,dc=no'

Create a ``trix_uio_ldap_auth.py`` as follows (but adjust the email suffix)::

    from django_auth_ldap.backend import LDAPBackend

    class TrixUioLDAPBackend(LDAPBackend):
        def ldap_to_django_username(self, username):
            return '{}@example.com'.format(username)

        def django_to_ldap_username(self, username):
            return username.split('@')[0]



***********
Dataporten
***********
Replacing the login with Dataporten login is relatively easy and can be done in a few steps:

    1. Register a new [Dataporten application](https://dashboard.dataporten.no/#!/_).
    Documentation can be found [here](
    https://docs.feide.no/developer_oauth/register_and_manage_applications/getting_started_app_developers.html).
    2. Go to the superuser panel (Django admin pages) and modify Sites. There should be an example
    site with id 1. Either edit this site or create a new one to reflect the name of the page.
    3. Create a new Social application using Dataporten as the provider. Give it a name and fill in
    the client id and secret key. Add the site you configured earlier.
    4. If you created a new Site, add ``SITE_ID = x`` to your ``trix_settings.py`` file,
    where X = Site ID.
    5. Login and logout should now work through Dataporten. Users will still be created and can be
    edited as normal.


****************
Consent template
****************
Customising the consent template is highly recommended and can be done by following these steps:

    1. Create a directory for custom templates with a subfolder named ``trix_student``
    2. Create a django html file called ``consent_form.django.html`` and make it look like this::

        {% extends "trix_student/consent_form_base.django.html" %}

        {% block consent_title %}<h1>Consent title here</h1>{% endblock %}

        {% block consent_text %}Lorem Ipsum{% endblock %}

        {# If you want to override the buttons you can add this #}
        {# {% block consent_buttons %}BUTTONS{% endblock %} #}


    3. In ``trix_settings.py`` do::

        from trix.utils.template import add_custom_template

        add_custom_template('custom_template_directory/goes/here')

If you wish to disable the consent dialog completely for some reason, add ``DISABLE_CONSENT = True``
to your ``trix_settings.py`` file.


******************
Make sure it works
******************
Just to make sure everything works, run::

    $ cd ~/trixdeploy/
    $ venv/bin/python manage.py migrate

This should create a file named ``~/trixdeploy/trixdb.sqlite``. You can remove that file now - it was just for testing.


********************
Collect static files
********************
Run the following command to collect all static files (CSS, javascript, ...) for Trix::

    $ venv/bin/python manage.py collectstatic

The files are written to the ``staticfiles`` sub-directory (~/trixdeploy/staticfiles).


********************
Configure a database
********************
Configure a Postgres database by editing the ``DATABASE_URL`` setting in your ``trix_settings.py`` script.
The format is::

    DATABASE_URL = "postgres://USER:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/NAME"


**********************
Configure a SECRET_KEY
**********************
Configure the SECRET_KEY (used for cryptographic signing) by editing the ``SECRET_KEY`` setting in your
``trix_settings.py`` script. Make it a 50 characters long random string.


******************
Disable debug mode
******************
Before running Trix in production, you **must** set ``DEBUG=False`` in ``trix_settings.py``.

.. warning::

    If you do not disable DEBUG mode in production, you database credentials and SECRET_KEY
    will be shown to any visitor when they encounter an error.


*************************
Run the production server
*************************
::

    $ DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=trix_settings venv/bin/gunicorn trix.project.production.wsgi -b 0.0.0.0:8000 --workers=12 --preload

You can adjust the number of worker threads in the ``--workers`` argument,
and the port number in the ``-b`` argument. You can run this on port 80,
but if you want to have SSL support, you will need to use a HTTP proxy
server like Apache og Nginx.


.. _PIP: https://pip.pypa.io
.. _VirtualEnv: https://virtualenv.pypa.io
